.. _getting_involved:

Getting Involved
================

Writing3D is currently a volunteer effort by a single (very harried) graduate
student, William Hicks. He is very grateful for the support and encouragement
of the Brown University VR community, but he would love to see more people get
directly involved with Writing3D to make it a viable platform as soon as
possible. Please feel free to reach out to him through Twitter (`@whimsicalilk
<https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?screen_name=whimsicalilk>`_).
with questions, comments, suggestions, etc. Here are some other ways you can
help make Writing3D a reality (and then make it better!):

For Python Coders
-----------------
If you're interested in contributing code to Writing3D, please fork it on
`Github <https://github.com/wphicks/Writing3D>`_! We are using a fork-and-pull
model for contributions, and please feel free to send pull requests early and
often. Current areas that are particularly in need of attention include the GUI
interface, particle systems, sound, and automatic integration with `BlenderVR
<https://blendervr.limsi.fr/doku.php>`_. Please see :ref:`developer_guide` for
style information and git workflow.

For Non-Coders
--------------
If you are not a Python coder or don't feel comfortable contributing code,
there is still a lot you can do to help. To begin with, start using Writing3D
and let us know anytime something breaks or doesn't work quite as expected. You
can do this by `submitting an issue
<https://help.github.com/articles/creating-an-issue/>`_ on `Github
<https://github.com/wphicks/Writing3D/issues>`_ or reaching out to William Hicks
via `Twitter <https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?screen_name=whimsicalilk>`_.
When submitting Github issues, please be sure to note what
operating system you are using.

You can also contribute by helping write documentation and create samples for
the project. If you want to clarify or add onto this documentation, or if you
have a small sample that you think would be useful for other users to look at,
either:

1. `Fork <https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/>`_ Writing3D on `Github
   <https://github.com/wphicks/Writing3D>`_ and `send us a pull request
   <https://help.github.com/articles/using-pull-requests/>`_ or 
2. Tweet `@whimsicalilk
   <https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?screen_name=whimsicalilk>`_, and we'll help
   you add your changes to the project.

For those wishing to donate
---------------------------
At the moment, we do not have a system in place for you to donate money to the
development effort, but we do strongly encourage you to consider donating to
the open source projects on which Writing3D depends, including `BlenderVR
<https://blendervr.limsi.fr/doku.php>`_, `Blender
<https://www.blender.org/foundation/donation-payment/>`_, and `Python
<https://www.python.org/psf/donations/>`_. Without these projects, Writing3D
(and a lot of other great programs) could not exist.

While we don't currently accept donations, we *are* on the lookout for grants
to help speed the development of this project. If you're aware of a
grant-giving organization that might be interested in Writing3D, we'd love to
hear about it.

Contents
---------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

        Developer's Guide <developer_guide.rst>
